Come in Come in Hi there Hi So my name is [LEARNER_NAME] I'm a medical student here at Case Um, do you mind if I do a quick physical exam? OK No Um, just to confirm, can you tell me your name? Nathan OK, and how do you prefer to be addressed? Nathan's fine OK, do you have a preference of pronouns for your clinical notes? Uh, he him Um, so just to confirm, you've been having a little bit of chest pain? OK, well, I'm going to um, listen to your heart, I'm gonna listen to your lungs, and, um, I'll keep you updated as we go. I'm just going to raise this I'll start with your lungs um mm-hmm If you don't mind, I'm going to untie your gown in the back That's fine OK Thank you mm-hmm I'm just watching you breathe Staying on your back OK Any pain when I press around here? Nope Pain around here? No Any pain around here? No Any pain anywhere I haven't felt? Uh, Other than in your chest No OK All right, now I'm just going to, um, tap on your lungs and on your, well, on your back, and mm-mm listen Just gonna put this down a little bit OK, I'm just gonna give you a little listen I'll just have you take deep breaths for me deep breath deep breath deep breath OK. deep breath deep breath deep breath OK, I'm just gonna listen here on the front deep breath OK Um Now, I'm gonna put my hands on your shoulders, and can I have you say, uh, ninety nine for me ninety nine OK and then, can I have you say ninety nine Sorry ninety nine One more time ninety nine Perfect Now can I have you whisper ninety nine ninety nine ninety nine ninety nine ninety nine ninety nine OK All right. And then, um, can I just see your hands, this Thank you OK Perfect. Can I have you put your hands at your side? I'm just gonna feel your pulses now OK Feel your ankles [unintelligible] feel [unintelligible] feet Have you noticed any swelling in your legs, or anything unusual like that? mm-mm OK Um, all right then. Um, I'm gonna pull this footrest out for you and then I'm, uh, gonna lean you back here mm-hmm Perfect This is a drape for you OK OK I'm just gonna lean you back a touch further OK, and then can I have you look this way? Pardon my reach OK I'm just going to take a quick listen to your neck I'm gonna feel your pulse while I do it Thank you OK Um I'm just gonna lower you down a bit. I'm gonna listen to your heart OK I'm just going to lower you all the way down Thank you And can I have you roll onto your left side? OK Thank you Perfect, thank you. I'm just feeling for, um, your heart again and I'm gonna take a listen OK. Um, you can lay on your back now. Thank you mm-hmm OK. and Then I'm gonna just do one more listen to your heart. this time making sure that I listen for any murmers or anything OK. I'm gonna sit you up now. Oh. [unintelligible] covered [unintelligible] there I can tie your gown in the back Thank you mm-hmm Got your arm in? OK I got it All right. Well Very nice meeting you. I'm gonna, uh, discuss this with our preceptor All right [unintelligible] OK And uh, we're have you back to ask you some more questions, maybe do some more maneuvers, but it's very nice to meet you. OK, thank you Hi Hi I'm Monica [LEARNER_NAME] nice to meet you Great job Thank you Uh, I guess we can start with if that went well, or if there's anything else you want to focus on Um, I think it went OK, I think he felt comfortable, and I think I did the majority of the maneuvers? there's always the nagging sense that I'm Yeah gonna look at the list and find out that I missed, I missed something or another, but No, I think that you got everything from what I saw, uh, yeah Um OK You checked extremeties, and [unclear] ascultation of the heart, um, JVP, carotid arteries. Um, for carotid arteries, did you, like, and this is, like, super minor You can use the bell mmm This side of the scope is actually better OK. Yeah, yeah at a low pitch Um, but, literally, like, flawless. Got everything on the checklist report Cool, cool Do you have any questions? Um, no, no Good job Thank you You only have one more, right? I think so. I hope so OK. Almost done All right, thank you How's it been so far? Today, or in general? Today? Today's good, um, yeah. It's a good time. This is a fun little exercise OK [unintelligible] meeting you Thank you
