Come in Hi, it's good to meet you Hello My name is [LEARNER_NAME] Horn I'm currently a second-year medical student with Case Western. Um, and, uh, how, how may I call you by, Mister Mangam? Yeah, you can call me Pat Pat, Ok. Just for documentation purposes, should I call you he/him? He/Him is fine He/Him is fine? OK, I'll do that. OK, so um, I have here on my note that you're here about , um, is that true alcohol overuse? Uh, well, the judge told me I need to come in here and talk with you about my drinking Yeah, OK. OK. So, could you tell me a little bit about the past history about drinking? Yeah, what are you interested in knowing? Um, roughly how long ago did you first start drinking? I, I started when I was a teenager Uh-huh. And just to confirm, how old are you right now? I'm sixty-seven. Sixty-Seven. OK Um, and how much how many drinks do you have per day? Usually, when I get home from work, I'll, I'll have two or three beers. Uh, My job is pretty stressful and um when I get home I kind of use those two three beers to help relax and it's been very effective in that regard over the years mm-hmm mm-hmm uh-huh mm-hmm mm-hmm. OK, so it helps you to relax and it's a way for you to, like calm down a little bit mm-hmm yep Um, so, how many years would you say you have been drinking two or three drinks a day? Most of my professional life. Um, I've, you know, I've been doing this for a while and I recognized pretty early on that if I don't do something to relieve my stress when I get home that I'm not too much fun to be around mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm So, I, quite a while ago, I found out, you know, that just two or three beers does the trick. It's - it feels relatively safe and and and and has been very effective for me, so that's been my go-to, uh, relaxant mm-hmm mm-hmm right Right, and it's been well-controlled for pretty much most of your professional life Yeah. I, I feel that way Have you ever felt guilt over drinking? Well, not really, um, the thing that got me in here is uh the judge's the judge's Well, over the weekend, I was driving home and I got stopped by the cops and they gave me a ticket for DUI. And they took and I had to spend a night in jail and, um, the judge, as a condition for bail, said that I had to come in here mm-hmm right mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm Prior to that incident, I would not have come in, because I don't think I really have any issues that need to be addressed, and mm-hmm mm-hmm my alcohol use I, I consider I consider that I, I, I am in control of my alcohol use um You never thought this was a problem until the judge. At this point in time, do you think you'd want to cut back on the amount of drinks you have? Yeah. I mean, a night in jail, it's a time to contemplate and [unitelligible] felt guilty. I was gonna say, as a result of the arrest and stuff, I kinda feel embarrassed my alcohol use I, I consider I consider that I, I, I am in control of my alcohol use mm-hmm mm-hmm and and I think my family's embarrassed and mm-hmm I feel I feel bad that my family's embarrassed about this, so right those, those factors tend to make me think that it's maybe time to make some changes mm-hmm right before we go into how we can implement the changes to cut back on drinking, because quite frankly, I'm with you on this. I think it would be beneficial for us to try to find ways to cut down drinking Drinking has a lot of um other health issues, aside from causing dangers to other people on the road It can also harm your liver and your long-term health as well But before we get into that have you, like, right before you got the judge's sentence, have you It was not a sentence, I mean, I got a hearing scheduled Sorry But right before um the DUI, did you ever feel like you had to uh drink alcohol right when you, um, woke up? In the morning? Yeah, in the morning. No Oh, OK. Have people around you ever told you you that need to cut down your drinking - prior to the DUI Yeah, my wife and kids have, have, uh suggested on occasion that I'm drinking too much Um, which, you know, I, I, I really, like I said, I don't really feel like I'm drinking too much. I feel like I've got good control over the alcohol intake, and it's, it's not like I get violent or mad or angry. mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm Right. OK. Right. Um, yeah. Thanks for telling me that. Um, and would you be interested in, ah, me providing you with more information about how we can cut down drinking for you? Yeah, I mean, I think, I think, the conclusion I came to, you know, when I was sitting in the cell was that you know, I don't want, I don't want to get another DUI, I don't want to go back in jail, I and wouldn't mind my family, you know, was, was unhappy about that, so OK mm-hmm mm-hmm Right mm-hmm Yeah, I'm interested We're here to fully support that and really appreciate that. So, a lot of times, um, when someone has a drinking problem, it becomes a habit, so, it's something that, uh, whether it's stress from work, it's an initial event, and then you feel like you have use something to try to calm that down. So there's different ways we can do it. We can do it by um finding you another outlet for that stress, so, maybe, uh, going out to exercise, or finding a hobby that could somewhat replace that drinking, and then we'd slowly try to cut back the drinking for you, so it would be really helpful if we can have a log for over time where you can um log how much drinks you're doing and then um maybe the first few weeks weeks two months, we can try to cut you down to one drink a day and then maybe, um, like a few drinks every single week so that it's no you're no longer dependent on the drink as a way to help your body relax um we understand that it's extremely difficult to do because um you have beenuh drinking for so many years, and we understand that this would cause you a lot of stress. So we're always here to help, and um if you want, I can give you information for someone who's a counsellor who coulduh be there professionally for you all the time and help you through this process and at any time if you need anything, we'll be here. So there are also other, uh pharmacological - there's also other drugs we could prescribe that could help cut down drinking. And it seems like to me that you're self-motivated in trying to cut down drinking, is that correct? It, you know, I really don't know yet, because I haven't tried it, um, I mean I recognize the that I, I wanna do something. I mean, some of the things we're talking about, um seem more attainable for me. I mean, if you're asking me to cut down to one drink a day right now, I would say that's kind of a ... it would be a further leap than I would take because mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm That's rough mm-hmm I mean, I, I need to, I need to, when I come home from work, I'm keyed up and I, I need to do something so that I'm presentable to my family. And um mm-hmm just from experience, I think, you know, one beer probably wouldn't relax me mm-hmm um. Some days, two's enough, but, you know, other days I drink three. Um. information I'm very welcome because I haven't done, I haven't done any research yet. I haven't investigated my alternatives.. mm-hmm Yeah, of course Yeah Um, so that's something I'm [unintelligible] in. You know, and and, speaking with someone about this, I could, I could see doing that. I could see that as a possibility mm-hmm mm-hmm Yeah, and it seems like from everything you're telling me now, it seems like you're trying to drink so you can be more presentable to your family. Would it be helpful if we brought your family along for these sessions so we can all work as a team? maybe your family can help you with cutting down drinking as well, so that we can all work as a team well, my, my kids are grown and out of town mm-hmm and, I mean, I mean, I'm gonna my wife is gonna wanna know about the appointment and what we talked about mm-hmm I'd rather not involve her until I've got a plan I think I can work. Because mm-hmm for me, I mean, it's I know she'll be supportive, um, mm-hmm but I kinda wanna have a road map that I work on with whomever, so that it's something that I feel I can do. I I don't wanna shoot too high and be disappointed. OK Right, Yeah. OK. I understand. So you're willing to um, undergo this journey but you want to have a very steady plan beforehand and you don't want to be too ambitious with the plan Yeah, that, that's, that's that's accurate mm-hmm OK And then you used the drinking as a way to calm down after you come back from work yeah, I mean, I also, I also enjoy alcohol when we're with friends. I mean, I mm-hmm Our friend group, We're, we've almost always got some drink going on. I mean, whether it's going to a baseball game and you're having beers mm-hmm right mm-hmm You know, something literally going out for drinks after work, or going to dinner, visiting people's houses - it's you know, here's my coat, how are you doing, what would you like to drink? mm-hmm mm-hmm right mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm right And that, I mean I, I it's, it's fun drinking with friends, and I like the taste of the alcohol, and mm-hmm um, yeah. I mean, it's become, you know, kind of part of my life mm-hmm right right, OK, so that's really tough if you wanted to cut down drinking, especially after the DUI. So, maybe there's a few roads that we should go down before, that might, help you in the future It seems like you life is mostly together Um but we might have to think of different ways of maybe having your wife drive you or taking taxis once you drink, so you don't get another DUI Um, can you tell me a little bit about what happened during the DUI? Uh, I mean, I got stopped, and I honestly don't think I was drunk but, you know, the cop uh disagreed with me um mm-hmm mm-hmm and I mean it's not like I'm gonna necessarily be able to win that case in court but um mm-hmm I don't like I said, I I don't want another DUI ticket and mm-hmm I guess it's a certain amount of blood alcohol whether I'm drunk or not doesn't matter so much, that's you know, so I could see, yeah, maybe getting an uber or getting a ride from someone my wife or somebody else. Back when my kids were young, I'd always say that I would Right, yeah mm-hmm Well, what were you doing when you got the DUI. Were you driving home from work Oh .Driving home from some friends From some friends mm-hmm Yeah, it was a weekend, you know, I was with some friends and we were drinking, like I said we do mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm And uh the cop said, the cop said I was weaving or something but mm-hmm once again it's, ah. It is what it is and I don't want to have it happen again Right, OK. so we can probably work on that and have you call a taxi or get your wife to drive you next time you've had a few drinks Yeah Yeah Um and I would highly recommend any kind of - any amount of alcohol you have in the future to just call someone to get you instead of driving yourself because that puts other people on the road at risk as well as yourself Yeah OK. Um. Just to go over everything we've talked about today, could you briefly talk about like the different methods um of cutting down drinking I presented to you just so that we can both understand what's going on Yeah, I mean, if I recall, you said something about getting individual counselling, uh, you were talking about reducing the amount of uh daily intake mm-hmm mm-hmm Um, you know, you were talking, most recently we discussed um having someone drive me if I've been drinking mm-hmm right Um, those are the main things that stick. Oh, and also the literature about about mm-hmm OK Right, Yeah. Those are also super helpful and lastly, we also have drugs available if you wanted to take some. Once you take those, you don't want to drink any more So if you ever think drinking is becoming too much of an issue or is having an issue in your daily life, or you're drinking as you wake up and it's interfering with your work Yeah, that's never been an issue But once that ever becomes an issue [unintelligible] That's good to know. Thanks. [unintelligible] Good day Hey, [LEARNER_NAME] I'm Zoe, I'm an M4. How are you today? I'm good how are you doing Good. What do you want to go into? Um, maybe something surgical OK, very cool. What kind of surgery. Any ideas? Um, I'm doing a lot of plastic surgery related stuff Oh, plastic surgery is so cool What about you? OK, that's awesome. I'm goign into family medicine because I love everything and want to be able to do everything Um awesome. So how do you feel like it went today? Um, I feel like it was fine, but I do feel like the patient gave a lot of resistance as I was talking to him. he seemed at some point in the very beginning - he seemed contemplative Oh, right But then as we went along, it seemed like he wasn't willing to cut down the alcohol and he just wanted to get out of like getting DUIs in the future and it, I mean, um, he answered my case questions and he got two out of um, four so it seems like to me that, um, it's sort of becoming an issue for him, but he's, he dosen't wake up drinking alcohol and it doesn't seem to affect his work life um and family life for that matter right now, um, so, uh, I mean, I don't know what to do in that situation when the patient is so against it, so and in the end sort of counseled him on um having people drive him for his own safety and for his family's safety sorry for other people on the road's safety because I feel like that's the best I can do at this point um obviously I don't think he's a candidate for pharmacological [unintelligible] treatments or anything like that cause he doesn't seem motivated enough by himself to cut down drinking hopefully he can stay off the road when he's uh had any kind of drink, so that's the main issue that we went into at the very end Yeah yeah yeah yeah I agree I think that he, um vaccilated a little bit um and changed up his tune a little bit, which can happen Yeah um, yeah. I think that uh, you're completely right. I think I liked - I really liked that your advice, at that point, changed from um, you know, stopping or reducing alcohol, to let's at least reduce harm here um, so I think that was really good. Um, yeah I think that, um, I think that in the advise portion, um, mm-hmm Studies show that it is really helpful for patients to hear that um strong advice, I mean you did such a wonderful job, so now we're just gonna fine-tune mm-hmm um, because you will be doing this with tobacco cessation, um hopefully because mm-hmm even patients who are resistant,if sometimes if they hear it from their surgeon, and they hear it from everybody, then they are like, oh, they start to internalize it and process it and understand mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm that they need to, um, change, even if they are pre-contemplative um, but yeah. Studies show that it is helpful if you say to the patient, "um, the single most important thing you can do for your health is to quit." mm-hmm or reduce your consumption. Um and then go into a little bit of why mm-hmm mm-hmm like, um, for tobacco cessation, you're going to be saying, "you know, your grafts are not going to heal fast and they're not going to heal properly." mm-hmm we might have to do more surgeries. So things like that or, um, you know, a lot of people don't want to be plump mm-hmm mm-hmm because of ascites from alcoholism, so you're gonna, you might have mm-hmm mm-hmm OK so let's focus on other important things, then I like that you talked about distraction, um kind of a management strategy Um, for him. For, um, uh, so one thing that was on the checklist, um, was, which you did such a wonderful job, you don't have to worry We're just going to improve everyone, always. Um So asking for the advantages of starting a new behavior and the disadvantages of continuing an old behavior, or using a readiness score And the reason that that is such a valuable thing on the checklist is because it makes them explain mm-hmm mm-hmm um to you the reasons, and then they convince themselves. and they're um, more likely to remember the things they've said and more likely to be convinced by the things they have said mm-hmm So that's why we do the strong advise, with a little bit of knowledge, but then we also make them tell us. Um mm-hmm mm-hmm mm-hmm Thank you so much for [unintelligible]. I appreciate it Yeah. Good luck!
